Imaging and Data Visualisation
==============================

###Introduction


We’ve been led to believe that a picture is worth a thousand words. This module puts that truism to the test. Exploring non-verbal communication, we introduce students to photographic, illustrative and diagrammatic approaches to communication. Showcasing the power of the image in communication the module equips students with the ability to not only create images, but also brief others’ on how to create images, through the creation of functional mood boards.

More details on the module can be found at [Imaging and Data Visualisation](http://ixdbelfast.org/curriculum/0001/02/02/imaging-and-data-visualisation.html) on the IxD website

As mentioned, you will have three projects this semester

- **Coursework 1 – Photographic Pool (25%, hand-in Week 3, Friday 13th February)**
- **Coursework 2 – Illustrative Pool (25%, hand-in Week 6, Friday 6th March)** 
- **Coursework 3 – Diagrammatic Pool (50%, hand-in Week 12, Friday 6th May)**

Feedback will be provided on Weeks 4, 7 and 12, this will you the chance to reflect on your work and, if necessary, revist your work before the final hand-in in week 12.

Each project will be assessed by:

- **Depth and breadth of research** – to ensure the success of any project either here or in the future thorough research should be the very first thing you consider before starting on to the creative side of the project. The more you understand about what is being asked of you the better equipped you will be to fulfil the requirements.

- **Creative experimentation and prototyping** – this is always a vital part of your project submision and so many people lose out on easy marks by not including ther background work, sketches, rejected ideas and so on. This shows that you have tried a number of different aproaches before your final submission and not just gone with the first idea that pops into your head. 

- **Confidence of final solution** – have you pushed yourself creatively or played it safe? Trying new approaches that you may not have tackled before will help you develop as a designer dont play it safe, push yourself. How you present your final pieces is very important, you want to show them off to the best of their ability so make sure everything is in focus and as clean as possible.


Week 01 – The Impact of Photography
-----------------------------------

**Apologies for the equipment failure this morning and its subsequent impact on the lecture delivery.** 

To get things on an even track I have included a lot of material that will be useful for your first project for this module.

###Project 01
**Macro**

- Study a piece of architecture and photograph it from different viewpoints 

- You should aim to take on board the principles we will cover and you have researched into consideration. 

- Six of the best will be presented in your Design Journal.

- All of your images should be uploaded to your Flickr account with a clear link from your Design Journal to the set.

- Consider the story behind the images, what are you trying to say to the viewer?

**Micro**

- Photograph a series of small, individual details from the building you photographed.

- Consider how these items are photographed, retain a consistency in your approach.

- Follow the same guidelines as those for the Macro series.

- Six of the best will be presented in your Design Journal.

>“For me, the camera is a   sketchbook, an instrument   of intuition and spontaneity.” Henri Cartier-Bresson
