IXD302/DES310: Narrative and Storytelling
=========================================

Examining how storytelling can be used to enhance content, this module considers how concepts like art direction, pacing and narrative can be used to control the flow through information. Through the creation of a piece of narrative web-based content, students are taught the dynamics of design as it unfolds like a story, across frames and over time.

For a more in-depth explanation of the module’s intent, including recommended reading, read the [abbreviated module descriptor](http://ixdbelfast.org/curriculum/0002/01/02/narrative-and-storytelling.html). (This module is run concurrently for students on both the BDes (Hons) Interaction Design and BSc (Hons) Interactive Multimedia Design courses.)

Students are provided with an existing piece of content, which I have carefully developed to include a broad range of content types. Without the burden of having to generate content, they are encouraged to develop a single page web site, where the use of narrative and storytelling is brought to the fore. The content is sectioned, with various asides, maps and charts, allowing for considerable creative interpretation.

—[Christopher Murphy](https://twitter.com/fehler)


----


Overview
--------

__Week 01:__ Introduction; Brief; HTML is a Design Element  
__Week 02:__ Stories Drive Communication  
__Week 03:__ Single Page Showcase  
__Week 04:__ What Is Narrative? Learning From Print  
__Week 05:__ What Is Narrative? Learning From Music and Film  
__Week 06:__ Group Critique  
__Week 07:__ Visual Vocabulary: Flat → Skeuomorphic → Flat…  
__Week 08:__ Moving From A to B: Designing Transitions  
__Week 09:__ The Wonderful World of Maps  
__Week 10:__ Amplifying Data  
__Week 11:__ Optimising for Performance  
__Week 12:__ Group Critique  

__Fridays, 11.15-13.15__  
Conor Lecture Theatre


----


Detailed View
-------------

###Week 01: Introduction; Brief; HTML is a Design Element

__25 September, 2015__

We kick off the semester with a short refresher, stressing that HTML is a design element. This session is intended to ease students back into their second year, blowing off the cobwebs and reiterating what we covered in Year 1. It is particularly designed to pick up direct Year 2 entrants that might be missing core skills.

+ Introduction
  + Outline of the Module
  + Teaching Staff
  + Lecture Series Overview
  + Assessment and Deliverables: A note on the deliverables and amount of effort I’m expecting. (This is a 20 Credit module, which equates to 200 effort hours, excluding the lectures, that’s 176 hours of self-directed study.)
+ HTML is a Design Element
  + Design Last
  + Frontend Guidelines

####URLs

+ [dConstruct, 2015](http://2015.dconstruct.org)
+ [If the Moon Were Only 1 Pixel](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html)
+ [Design Last](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/02/design-last/)
+ [Frontend Guidelines](https://github.com/bendc/frontend-guidelines)
+ [HTML5 for Web Designers](http://abookapart.com/products/html5-for-web-designers)

__Deliverable 2A:__ HTML Prototype


----


###Week 02: Stories Drive Communication (Guest Lecture)

__2 October, 2015__

Stories form the backbone of human expression and, considered carefully, underpin interactive experiences. In this lecture we explore the magic of stories and investigate the potential storytelling has when applied to design for the devices we use daily.

+ How Stories Function
  + Understanding Comics
  + The Narrative Arc
+ From Watch to Desktop (And Everywhere in Between)
  + The Medium Frames the Message
+ The Narrative Web
  + Collage, Montage; Cause, Effect

####URLs

  + [Beyond Usability and Design: The Narrative Web](http://alistapart.com/article/narrative)


----


###Week 03: Single Page Showcase

__9 October, 2015__

A roundup of beautifully designed single page sites, to inspire the students. If you’re looking to level the big beasts, this is where you should be aiming. We’ll take a series of single page stories and break them down, exploring how narrative and pacing underpin their design.

+ Bird Inspiration
  + Classics
  + Young Pretenders
+ Portfolios
  + Get them to explore how others tell the story of their portfolio.
+ Side Projects
  + [If the Moon Were Only 1 Pixel](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html)

####URLs

To follow.

__Deliverable 2B:__ Macro-Interactions


----


###Week 04: What Is Narrative? Learning From Print

__16 October, 2015__

Print’s not dead, far from it. It’s linear (and non-linear) and there’s a lot we can learn from it. In this lecture we explore the legacy of printed narratives, exploring books, magazines and other printed ephemera, where a story forms a backbone of the experience.

+ What is this thing called paper?
+ Getting inspiration off-screen.
+ Exemplars (Show and Tell):
  + The Face
  + iD
  + Beach Culture
+ How books function and tell stories.
  + Pacing
  + Choose Your Own Adventure

####URLs

To follow.


----


###Week 05: What Is Narrative? Learning From Music and Film

__23 October, 2015__

From Gorecki to Glass, Kurosawa to Kubrick, there’s a great deal we can learn from the worlds of music and film. In this lecture we introduce the idea of structure, rhythm and cadence, and the importance of considering the spaces within content journeys.

+ Exemplars (Show and Tell):
  + Kurosawa
  + Kubrik
  + Haneke
+ Structure
  + The Shape of Song
  + Verse Chorus Verse
  + The spaces between notes matter.
+ Pacing
  + East and West
  + The Power of the Pause
+ Colour

####URLs

To follow.


----


###Week 06: Group Critique

__30 October, 2015__

A group critique encouraging peer learning, this session affords an opportunity to gather feedback on the work done to date. Expect honest opinions, expressed fairly.

####URLs

To follow.


----


###Week 07: Visual Vocabulary: Flat → Skeuomorphic → Flat…

__6 November, 2015__

Let’s explore how our visual vocabularly has evolved. Once it was flat, then it became skeuomorphic (allowing the language of the real world to inform our understanding of new, emerging devices), now it’s flat again. We’ll explore the past and current landscape, including Google’s Material Design and IBM’s new IBM Design Language.

####URLs

To follow.


----


###Week 08: Moving From A → B: Designing Transitions

__13 November, 2015__

How we move from A → B matters. Animation can play an important part in the story. Do we use a dissolve? A Magic Move? In this lecture we’ll investigate transitions between states and explore Keynote as a rapid prototyping tool for designing interactions.

+ Transitions
  + Fade
  + Dissolve
  + Jump Cut
  + Etc.
+ How do the transitions we choose shape understanding and shape the form?
+ Timing

####URLs

To follow.

__Deliverable 2C:__ Micro-Interactions


----


###Week 09: The Wonderful World of Maps

__20 November, 2015__

Returning to the content supplied (which includes a map) we ask: Why use a static map when we can learn all about the wonderful world of APIs? We’ll explore the Google Maps API and OpenStreetMap, encouraging the students to delve a little deeper and extend their skillset.

####URLs

To follow.

__Deliverable 2D:__ Mapping Prototypes


----


###Week 10: Amplifying Data

__27 November, 2015__

When designing with data, we have an opportunity to amplify that data through the careful use of design. In this lecture we explore charting libraries to present complex statistics elegantly and effectively. We’ll explore Chart.js and Google Charts, encouraging the students to add a new skill to their existing toolbox.

####URLs

To follow.

__Deliverable 2E:__ Charting Prototypes


----


###Week 11: Optimising for Performance

__4 December, 2015__

We’re designing for everyone, regardless of their bandwidth. Let’s stop lazily designing for fat broadband pipes and start thinking of those with less capable connections. Those on mobile, those travelling on limited bandwidth, those less fortunate than us in the developed world. Let’s optimise, relentlessly.

+ A different kind of speed.
+ Blazing Fast
+ Concatenation
+ Minification
+ Compression
  + [Bokeh](https://adactio.com/journal/5439)

####URLs

To follow.


----


###Week 12: Group Critique

__11 December, 2015__

A group critique encouraging peer learning, this session affords an opportunity to gather feedback on the work done to date. Expect honest opinions, expressed fairly.

This critique affords the students formative feedback, providing them with an opportunity to address any issues and to improve the quality of the submission before the January hand-in.

####URLs

To follow.

__Deliverable 1:__ Narrative Web Site


----


Assessment
----------

+ Deliverable 1: Bird Project (60%)
+ Deliverable 2: Prototypes (40%)
  + 2A: HTML Prototype
  + 2B: Storyboard
  + 2C: Interaction Prototypes
  + 2D: Mapping Prototypes
  + 2E: Charting Prototypes

A more detailed breakdown of the assessment, with deliverables, is available [here](https://github.com/fehler/lectures/blob/master/IXD302/IXD302-Deliverables.md).