IXD306 – Placement
==================

Content and support for placement will be delivered throughout Semester 1 and 2 of the second year of study. The following material covers areas delivered by all staff.

Preparing for placement
-----------------------
The university provides a lot of useful resources: 
- [Career Development Center](www.ulster.ac.uk/guide/graduation-careers/careers/career-development-centre/)
- [Employability and Marketing](eandm.ulster.ac.uk/)
- [Employability](employability.ulster.ac.uk/)

When looking for placement keep checking:
- [Ulster University Recruit](eandm.ulster.ac.uk/)

There is also:
+ [Career Development Centre](http://careers.ulster.ac.uk) 
+ [Ulster GradNAV](http://gradnav.ulster.ac.uk) - vacancies in Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland, with links to other graduate websites
+ [PDSystem](http://pds.ulster.ac.uk)
+ [The Professional and Career Enhancement System (PACE)](http://pace.ulster.ac.uk) 

---

>"In terms of advice I'd say try to get out and network as much as possible - there's plenty of events in Belfast. 
I'd also say side projects, freelance work which you've shared online via dribbble or twitter - gets your name out there & helps you increase your skills.”

---

## Be Prepared
Preparation is everything, research the companies you are interested in and the placement opportunities offered. Find out as much as you can find about them before making contact.

**READ THIS** [How to Contact a Design Agency](bluegg.co.uk/blog/how-to-contact-a-design-agency)

---

>"Every interview and I mean EVERY interview I had asked me about side projects.”

---

## From the coalface
Eilis van der Merwe talks about her experiences while on [placement with Kainos](https://www.kainos.com/year-ux-design/)


## Possible Questions
You need to be prepared for all sorts of questions while being interviewed. The following are a few that current placent students were asked.


- Tell me a time when you overcame failure?
- Has there been a time you didn’t meet a deadline and how did you handle the situation?
- What motivates you?
- Who inspires you?
- What drives you to succeed?
- What is your biggest achievement?
- Have you heard of SCSS? What do you think of it?
- What do you find interesting about the industry?
- What do you think is biggest challenge within the industry?
- How do you keep up with such a fast paced industry?
- What website has caught your attention recently?
- Why did you include the icons on the header of your portfolio?
- Tell me a time you had to work under pressure and how did you handle the situation?
- What way do you find it best to learn?
- Tell me your process when you are asked to create a website
- What is your process when you are illustrating?
- I see that you use both Sketch and Illustrator, which do you prefer and why?
- What tools do you use daily?
- Criticism is an important part of this industry, how do you handle it?
- If you had to name just one person who would you say is your hero?

---

>"Your portfolio is half the battle, but you need to be prepared for questions on what you have put into it.”

---

## Additional reading

+ Strange, G. (2016) [Do Fly.](http://amzn.to/2evrE74) The Do Book Co