AAD117 - Exploring Identity
===========================

Exploring aspects of iconography, branding, and visual identity, this practice-based module investigates how design considers issues of character and personality and how these can be communicated graphically.


Module Deliverables
-------------------

If you feel strongly that you want to work in teams for the corporate identity project to stay motivated and share ideas, this is entirely within your right, however please note that you will be assessed on your individual body of work. The deliverables are as follows:

###Personal Identity (30%)
+ Monogram (50%)
+ Wordmark (50%)

###Corporate Identity (70%)
+ Visual Identity (25%)
+ Style Tiles (25%)
+ Icon Set (25%)
+ Brand Guidelines (25%)

###Where to submit
+ The Personal Identity and Corporate Visual Identity, Style Tiles and Icon Set will be uploaded to your [Flickr](http://flickr.com/) account.
+ Brand Guidelines will be a single webpage setting out the visual language of the corporate identity, which will be uploaded to your [GitHub](https://github.com) account in a repo named __AAD117 - Brand Guidelines__.
+ As part of the submission we'’d also like you to provide us with a sketchbook that evidences your development process throughout.

-------

Week 01 - Monograms and Personal Identity
-----------------------------------------

This week we introduced monograms, looking at what a monogram is and a case study of well known monograms and resources. We also explored personal identity, through personality tests to find out a little bit more about yourself and how personality can be applied visually. 

Your first week task is to sketch out as many variations of your initials as you can on paper, based on your new found knowledge of monograms and your exploration of personal identity and its visual application.

__Resources__

+ [Logo of Letters](http://www.bamagazine.com/Articles.asp?ID=156)

Week 02 - Monogram Development
------------------------------

This week we'd like you to pick your favourite monogram identity and develop it onscreen using Sketch. You'll also be able to explore colour, thinking back to your personality type and which colour best fits you. 

Week 03 - Wordmarks and Kerning
-------------------------------

This week we introduced wordmarks, looking at what they are with examples of both corporate and personal wordmarks. We also looked at kerning, what it is, examples of good and bad kerning in the wild. We also introduced kerning for the web, looking at the different methods available to us today, to control our web typography.

Your task this week is to sketch out your name as a wordmark. Find a style that resonates with you and is complimentary to your chosen monogram. Look at them both as part of the same identity not seperate entities.

You'll also work through kerning for the web in the afternoon session, learning how to kern web typography with the various methods available to us, and learn the advantages and disadvantages of each to better aid your judgement of which method is suitable for the task at hand.

__Resources__

+ [Kerning the Web Github Repo](https://github.com/timpotter/kerning-the-web)


Week 04 - Meet the Client
-------------------------


Week 05 - Visual Identity
-------------------------

This week was a workshop from the Little Thunder team that we looked at the thinking, considerations and process behind the creation of their own visual identity. We also looked at their client process and as groups partook in mind mapping and sketching ideas for Uncommon Knowledge. There was also an opportunity for each team to 'meet the client', to show their progress and ask additional questions regarding the visual identity.



-------

Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Tim Potter](mailto:tej.potter@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=AAD117).
