AAD323/DES311 - Creative Entrepreneurship
==========================================

I'll be posting supporting material for AAD323 here. If you're unfamiliar with GitHub, I'd suggest you educate yourself. You should all be learning about version control and, by using GitHub for our supporting lecture content, we hope to ensure you're aware of it. Please watch this page. This will ensure you're kept up to date when the file changes (you'll be notified in your GitHub newsfeed when any changes are made).

Module Deliverables
-------------------

There are 2 pieces of coursework.

1. Digital Product Project Proposal (60%)
2. Reflective Journal (40%)

__Coursework 1 - Digital Product Project (60%)__

Each student will present a digital product project proposal - broken down into 3 componants:

+ Digital Product Project Proposal (slides)
+ Digital Product Project Presentation (viva)
+ Digital Product and Promotional Website

The proposal should clearly summarise the project idea, pitching it to a clearly defined potential audience and identifying an appropriate financial model for the product (e.g. Freemium, SaaS…). This proposal should also evidence reflection on the legal and professional issues underpinning the project, demonstrating an understanding of copyright investigation undertaken while branding the project. We’ll also expect to see the creation of your chosen digital product along with a promotional website

__Coursework 2 – Reflective Journal (40%)__

Supporting material, assessed throughout the semester as the project evolves, including: idea generation, market research and user personas (Week 4); product and website wireframes and prototypes (Week 8); and project proposals, including target audiences and pricing models (Week 12).


Week 01 - Introduction
----------------------

This module introduces students to the ideas and principles, which underpin creative entrepreneurship, placing a heavy focus on the emerging and rapidly growing field of digital product design.

This week we'll introduce the teaching staff and an overview of the module. We'll introduce the deliverables, what is research and experimentation and look at exemplar examples from previous years.

__Resources__

+ [Design Journal Template](resources/DES311_Design_Journal.zip)
+ [Hello World Page by Tim Potter](https://github.com/timpotter/hello-world-page)
+ [Personal Page by Naz Hamid](https://github.com/weightshift/The-Personal-Page)

###Labs

There are no labs this week. Labs will commence in Week 2.

Week 02 - From Service to Product
---------------------------------

__PLEASE NOTE__: Due to an event in the Conor Lecture theatre, next week’s lecture will take place in __82A01/82A02__. This room is located on the ground floor, beside the security desk at the main entrance.

This week we'll explore how designers are increasingly moving from the delivery of services, towards products.
During the lecture we'll look at the evolution of ‘digital product design’ and how many designers are starting to use their skills to develop product ranges, for example: icons, prints, themes, and other forms of product.

###Labs

This week we expect to see evidence of initial idea generation and market research. We expect to see you undertaking the groundwork that will form the basis of the project as we progress through the semester. When thinking of an idea for your digital product project you may start by considering the following questions:

+ What currently exists?
+ What problem are you solving?
+ Is there a market for it?
+ Who is the market?
+ How much could I charge or would I make it free?
+ Would it sell?

Please post this research in Week 2 of your [Design Journal](resources/DES311_Design_Journal.zip).

Week 03 - User Personas
-----------------------

This week we'll explore 'User Personas', outlining how we can use them to create a detailed picture of our product’s typical customers.

###Labs

This week we expect to see evidence of three product categories – for example icons, prints, or themes – with an analysis of them. This might be three designers who are creating icon sets, for example: Dan Cederholm’s IconShoppe icons; Drew Wilson’s Pictos icons; or Adam Whitcroft’s Batch icons.

We’d like to see some thought given to each of your three choices, so consider the following questions:

+ How are the products being marketed? 
+ Who’s the target market? 
+ How are they priced? 
 
If they’re $40, why are they $40. If they’re free, why are they free? This research will inform your research in Week 3, when we start to build some user personas, which represent your typical customers.

Please post this research in Week 3 of your [Design Journal](resources/DES311_Design_Journal.zip).

Week 04 - Who Owns What?
------------------------

This week we'll explore "Who Owns What?" and look at copyright and its alternatives including copyleft and [Creative Commons](http://creativecommons.org).

__Lecture Resources__

+ [Intellectual Property Office](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/intellectual-property-office)
+ [CreativeMornings - Andy Baio](https://vimeo.com/62839607)
+ [Kind of Screwed - Andy Baio](http://waxy.org/2011/06/kind_of_screwed/)

###Labs

This week we expect you to have settled on a digital product idea to take forward over the remaining weeks. In order to design a product that meets a market need, it’s important to research your target market. We’d like to see you picking up from last week's lecture, and exploring User Personas in your Design Journal in Week 4, as outlined in the template.

In addition to your research, we’d like to see a finished user persona that encapsulates your typical customer. Our friends at MailChimp have created a lovely article on [User Persona Research](https://blog.mailchimp.com/new-mailchimp-user-persona-research/), you might like to start by reading that, but we’d like to see you doing your own research into this area.

Put some thought into how you design your personas. MailChimp’s, linked to above, are particularly nice, but how would you execute them?

Please post this task in Week 4 of your [Design Journal](resources/DES311_Design_Journal.zip).

Here are some examples to illustrate different styles of User Personas.

__Sample Personas__

+ [Photography/Typography](http://www.fiveq.com/personas/)
+ [Photography](http://uxmovement.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Complex-Speech-Bubble-Persona-580x353.png)
+ [Photography](http://krystalkarim.files.wordpress.com/2011/02/3userpersonas_page_2.jpg)
+ [Illustration](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/business-personas-for-mobile-phones.png)
+ [Illustration](http://onlinebusiness.volusion.com/assets/Making-it-personal.jpg)
+ [Illustration](http://www.metricomarketing.ca/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/buyer-persona.jpg)
+ [Hand Drawn](http://convo.org/home/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Tina.png)
+ [Infographic](http://moritz.stefaner.eu/projects/skype/skype_persona.png)
+ [Photography/Infographic](http://d.alistapart.com/personality-in-design/figure3_3.jpg)
+ [Hand Made](http://hfid.olin.edu/sa2011/s_engr3220-rock-me-amadeus/images/NeedsAnalysis/persona_david_large.jpg)


__Further Reading__

+ [Aarron Walters - Mailchimp](http://aarronwalter.com/design-personas)
+ [A list Apart - Personality in Design](http://alistapart.com/article/personality-in-design)
+ [Usability.gov - Personas](http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/personas.html)
+ [Tutsplus - Design Personas](http://webdesign.tutsplus.com/articles/design-personas-injecting-personality-into-your-web-projects--webdesign-7430)
+ [UX Mag - Personas: The Foundation of a Great User Experience](http://uxmag.com/articles/personas-the-foundation-of-a-great-user-experience)


Week 05 - Critique
------------------

This week is a group critique where specific feedback will be given highlighting exemplary work and denoting potential areas of improvement to enable students to revise project work prior to final submission.

During the crit we'll be focusing on the following deliverables, all to be posted within the related weeks in your Design Journal:

+ __Initial Research__ - Week 2
+ __Applied Research__ - Week 3
+ __Product choice & User Personas__ - Week 4

Make sure your work easily accessed from your Workspace at the following URL, changing '~B00123456' for your student ID:

```
https://scm.ulster.ac.uk/~B00123456/workspace/des311/
```
Please remember to check that your work is accessible from this link.

###Labs

Last week we talked about Who Owns What?' We explored copyright and its alternatives, considering copyleft and Creative Commons. For your research this week, we would like you to explore this area further and discuss what implications it may have on the product that you will be producing.

__Skills Acquisition 1__

This week we expect to see evidence of initial skills acquisition. You will probably need to learn new skills to get your product idea off the ground: this might mean learning Illustrator (you could take a look at Veerle Pieters’ excellent tutorials to leverage up your Illustrator abilities); or it might be learning how to theme Wordpress (you could explore WordPress’s documentation to grow your skills in this area).
In short, we expect to see evidence of you learning new skills. Your work in these early weeks will enable you to fulfil the brief.

Please post both of these tasks in Week 5 of your [Design Journal](resources/DES311_Design_Journal.zip).
 
Week 06 - Digital Pricing Models
--------------------------------

This week we'll look at digital pricing models, examining case studies of real world products and services that will equip you with the knowledge to make your own decisions regarding the pricing of your own digital product.

We'd like you to think about your project, not solely in the context of passing a module, but as a potential business idea.

We've had many success stories from this course that have turned ideas into businesses with [Get Invited](https://getinvited.to/), [Performa Sports](http://www.performasports.com/) and [Little Deli](http://littledeli.com/) to name but a few and we see this module as a incubator for these ideas.


###Labs

__Skills Acquisition 1__

This week we expect to see further evidence of skills acquisition. You all need to widen your skills base in order to: 

1. Fulfil the brief; and 
2. Prepare yourself for placement. 
 
Focus on your weaknesses. What skills do you need to improve? Identify these and provide prototypes that clearly show us what you have been working on.

It’s worth stressing at this point that we are expecting sustained work undertaken throughout the semester, don’t ease off the gas, maintain the momentum. You all have skills gaps, now is the time to address these gaps and learn something new.

Week 07 - Minimum Viable Product Part I
---------------------------------------

Due to the [Ulster Festival of Art & Design](http://www.ulsterfestival.com/), there will be no Friday lecture this week. Instead we encourage you to attend events of interest, in particular [Mr. Bingo](http://www.mr-bingo.org.uk/) who we're welcoming as part of [Refresh Belfast](http://refreshbelfast.com/) which staff are involved in running.

###Labs

This week we would like you to continue to refine your skills that will enable you to create your digital products. We should begin to see your initial digital product prototypes and we’d like you to focus on building a [Minimum Viable Product](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product) which you will iterate on this over the remainder of the semester.

Remember that the quicker you give your product form, the quicker you can iterate upon it. We’d like to see evidence of your product idea and some thought given to target market and pricing. (Remember, your price might be ‘free’.)

Week 08 - Minimum Viable Product Part II
----------------------------------------

This week we'll look at the importance of an iterative approach to design and look at [Minimum Viable Products](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product) and the [Lean Startup](http://theleanstartup.com/principles) approach towards the creation of new products.

###Labs

This week we expect to see your product ideas taking shape and becoming further refined. We’d like to see further evidence of your thinking and how it is evolving, reflect upon this so we can see your thinking.

At this point you should have a product idea and be at a stage that you can gather feedback on it from your peers and the wider market. Be proactive and start to consider how you’re framing your product’s story.

Week 09 - Critique
------------------

This week is a group critique where specific feedback will be given highlighting exemplary work and denoting potential areas of improvement to enable students to revise project work prior to final submission.

During the crit we'll be focusing on the following deliverables, all to be posted within the related weeks in your Design Journal:

+ __Initial Prototypes (MVP)__ (5&6)
+ __Refined Prototypes__ (7&8)

Make sure your work easily accessed from your Workspace at the following URL, changing '~B00123456' for your student ID:

```
https://scm.ulster.ac.uk/~B00123456/workspace/des311/
```
Please remember to check that your work is accessible from this link.

###Labs

Please use this week to get your product prototype up-to-speed for the critique on Friday.

###Staff Changes

From next week onwards [Christopher Murphy](mailto:chris.murphy@ulster.ac.uk) will take over as module coordinator as I (Tim) am leaving the University. I'd like to thank you all for the standard of work that you've produced this semester and last and wish each and every one of you all the best for the future.


Week 10 - Product Website
-------------------------

There will be no lecture this week, so please use this time to continue to develop your product for this module.

###Labs

Your product’s need a home. We showed some examples of these during the Week 2 lecture, ‘From Service to Product’. We’d like you to take a look at the examples we showed and consider how your product’s story is told. Examples to consider include: Dan Cederholm’s IconShoppe; Gavin Elliot and Vic Bell’s Gump Inc.; or Dan Mall’s Site Map Kit.

We’d like to see consideration give to pricing and target markets, as outlined in your Week 3 and Week 4 research. Consider the product narrative. How are you telling the story?

This can take the form of a static one page website or feel free expand this across multiple pages should you wish.

We'd also like to you to begin to think about how you will pitch your digital product idea to us so once again we'd like to see thought given to the target audience, pricing strategy, product overview and of course the product website.


Week 11 - Critique
------------------

This week is a group critique where specific feedback will be given highlighting exemplary work and denoting potential areas of improvement to enable students to revise project work prior to final submission.

During the crit we'll be focusing on the following deliverables, all to be posted within the related weeks in your Design Journal:

+ __Final Product Refinement__ (9&10)
+ __Product Website__ (10&11)

Make sure your work easily accessed from your Workspace at the following URL, changing '~B00123456' for your student ID:

```
https://scm.ulster.ac.uk/~B00123456/workspace/des311/
```
Please remember to check that your work is accessible from this link.

###labs

During the labs you'll be putting finishing touches to your product website and to the product itself in preperation for the final critique on Friday. You may also want to begin to think about your viva and the slide deck that is required for that. Remember we want thought and consideration given to the design of the slide deck.


Week 12 - Slide Deck
--------------------

There will be no lecture this week, so please use this time to continue to develop your product for this module.

###Labs

This week, during the labs, we'd like you to work on your Keynotes and PowerPoints.

Similarly to last semester, we’d like to see evidence of well-designed slides and a carefully considered pitch. Your Keynote or PowerPoint needs to provide:

+ An Overview of the Product
+ Your Target Market
+ Your Pricing Strategy
+ Your Product Web Site

In short, we’ll be looking for a well-designed slide deck that tells us the product story. We’ll also need you to provide a PDF of your slide deck to assist us with the assessment (put a link to this in your Design Journal)

Put some thought into your slides, they should support your story, but they also need to be considered in terms of design. Your presentation will be timed and is expected to last 5.00 minutes. Your slides should be an aid in helping you hit that timing.

Rick will offer guidance during Wednesday's lab session, if you have questions, please do ask for clarification.

###Deadline for slide deck

The deadline to submit your slide deck in either Keynote or PPT format will be:

+ __Wednesday, 6 May at 12:00pm__

Please email a *link* to your slide deck to:

+ Email: __chris.murphy@ulster.ac.uk__
+ Subject: __The Pitch - Rufus Salisbury (Change to your name)__
+ Body: __Link to Keynote or PPT__

Please don't include your slide deck as an attachment. Send us a link to it on Dropbox or your own website.


Week 13 - Product Pitch
-----------------------

###Pitch Checklist

Here are some points on your pitch.

+ Your presentation will be timed so keep it to 5:00 minutes in length.
+ Make time to rehearse beforehand and time yourself. Remember on the day nerves may cause you to speed up your delivery, so practice breathing, pausing and pacing.
+ Don't use any crazy fonts. We'll be running your presentation on our laptop in either Keynote or Powerpoint and probably won't have your font installed, so if you use a crazy font it will default to a system font.
+ Don't include any movies in your presentation - there simply won't be time for them and they will cause your deck file size to be enormous.
+ Please don't include any sounds either - we just want to see text and images.

###Time, location and signup

+ __Room:__ 82D09, Belfast Campus* 
+ __Dates:__ Thursday 7th and Friday 8th May 2015
+ __Time:__ 9:00am - 4:00pm both days
+ __Slot time:__ 10 minutes (5 for presentation / 5 for feedback)

Signup coming soon!

-------

Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Chris Murphy](mailto:chris.murphy@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=DES311).
