AAD116 - Introduction to Communication Design
====================


Week 01 - Introduction
----------------------

Introduction to the module and a reverse view of what will be covered over the next eleven weeks.

Week 02 – Cave Painting and Illuminated Manuscripts
---------------------------------------------------

Starting with cave paintings we move forward to the first written language and end with illuminated manuscripts.

Week 03 – Guttenberg and Moveable Type
--------------------------------------

The invention of the printing press revolutionises the dissemination of information and starts a typographic revolution in the process.

Week 04 – A Century of Change
-----------------------------

The Industrial Revolution of the late 19th and early 20th Century brings massive changes to the way we communicate.

Week 05 – Dada and Propaganda in Design
------------------------------------

Anti-art and war in Europe meets design.


Week 06 – Revolution and the Bauhaus
------------------------------------

The Russian Revolution and The Bauhaus generate visual vocabularies which still influence design today.


Week 07 – WWII, HfG Ulm and Modernism in the US
-----------------------------------------------

World War II forces many of Europes most influential designers to flee to the safety of the US while the Ulm School of Design picks up the pieces in Germany.

Week 08 – Break
---------------

Students are encouraged to attend [Break](http://breakconf.org) this week.

Week 09 – The International Style and Swiss Design
--------------------------------------------------

A look at design in post war Europe and beyond.

Week 10 – Postmodernism and the Rise of the Machines
----------------------------------------------------

Starting with the father of new wave typography we move forward to deconstruction and the early influences of the computer in design.

Week 11 – The Here and Now
--------------------------

Design today online and offline.

Week 12 – Future User Interfaces and Beyond
-------------------------------------------

No, not Buzz Lightyear but a look at the design of interfaces of the future.








----

Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Paul McCormack](mailto:p.mccormack@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=AAD116).
