IXD303 Designing with Content
=============================

This module explores the importance of considering content – in all its forms – as a core element of any piece of interaction design that can, itself, be designed. As content strategist Karen McGrane puts it: “Well-structured content is the backbone and starting point of all successful web designs and user interactions.” Through an emphasis on developing strategic approaches to content and its generation, students are introduced to additional possible career pathways, including that of the content strategist.

Students undertake a series of exercises, which include: identifying content types and taxonomies; designing content systems; considering future, as yet unimagined content delivery platforms; learning the principles of programming; and exploring Content Management Systems (CMS).

---

Overview
--------

__Week 01:__ What is Content?   
__Week 02:__ Lightening the Load    
__Week 03:__ Creating and Managing Copy  
__Week 04:__ Structuring Data - an Introduction to Taxonomies and Systems     
__Week 05:__ Content Strategies    
__Week 06:__ Chunking and Adaptive Content   
__Week 07:__ Content Curation    
__Week 08:__ Reading Week    
__Week 09:__ Managing Content    
__Week 10:__ Designing for Existing and Unknown Future Delivery Platforms  
__Week 11:__ Progressive Enhancement   
__Week 12:__ Student Vivas

__Tuesdays 13.30–16.00__    
__Thursdays 10.00-16.00__  

---

Detailed View
-------------

###Week 01: What is Content?   
What exactly is content and why is it important? Who makes content? Who is responsible for content generation? (Equally, who is to blame when content isn’t delivered?).

This module explores the importance of considering content – in all its forms – as a core element of any piece of interaction design that can, itself, be designed.

>"Well structured content is the backbone and starting point for all successful web designs and user interactions."     
<cite>Karen McGrane, Content strategist</cite>

Through an emphasis on developing strategic approaches to content and its generation, students are introduced to additional possible career pathways, including that of the content strategist.

To start, we are focussing on your own content. Starting with your portfolio sites and extending to social media, we will look at how you create, collect and present content to promote yourselves as effectively as possible.

###Week 01 Task
This week we delved into the [Terminal](http://www.macworld.co.uk/feature/mac-software/get-more-out-of-os-x-terminal-3608274) a little to check the version of Ruby installed on oor system then install our own, barebones, static Jekyll site.

If you have managed to get everything installed. Great! If not, don’t fret. There is plenty of help online, these two are a great start.

- [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home)
- [Installing Jekyll](https://github.com/timpotter/installing-jekyll)

If you are still wrestling with it drop me a line and I will help you out in the studio next week. If all else fails you can download [this version](resources/portfolio.zip). 

---

###Week 02 – Lightening the Load

Learning how to properly manage the content on our websites can save you a lot of time and effort when updating, changing or removing that material. 

This is where **includes** come into their own. Includes come in many forms, and can be typically found in PHP and JavaScript. Here, we are focussing on Jekyll, where the terminal install provides us with a default set of **_includes** in our [directory structure](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure). 

####Includes
The basic set of includes downloaded with the Jekyll install cover everything we need for our `<head>`, `<header>` and `<footer>` content. However, we don’t have to stop here, we can create includes for any type of content that is likely to appear on a regular basis in our websites. Our `<header>` could be split into `<hgroup>` and `<nav>`, we could add a gallery include, includes for social media, or images. If it repeats, it can be, and probably should be, turned into an include.

With this basic structure we can create a **default.html** page which will become the foundation on which we can build the rest of our site.

####Liquid
A look in the **_layouts** folder introduces us to the default page structure where we come across our first introduction to [Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers) markup. Liquid allows us to pull text content into our pages, where output markup such as – **{{ page.title }}** – pulls in the title specified in our [YAML front matter](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter) from the page we are currently on. 

Tag markup such as – **{% include head.html %}** – does as you would expect, pulling in the head.html file saved in our includes folder.

####YAML
Our pages are constructed through a combination of Liquid and [YAML](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter) front matter. This is where things start to get really interesting. Through a combination of YAML variables and Liquid tags we can build our site in any number of ways.

Setting our front matter at the top of the page as this:–

`---`   
`layout: post  `  
`title:  "Portfolio Preparation"`   
`date:   2016-02-09 14:12:39 +0000`  
`---`

Tells us that our page is going to be built from the post.html structure in our **_layout** folder with the title **Portfolio Preparation** and a date stamp of **Feb 9 2016**. We can additional content automagically through additional Liquid tags and these can be anything we want as long as we reference them properly through YAML and Liquid. 

For example on the front matter above we could add an additional **intro** variable and include the first sentence of our blog post by way of an introduction. Adding **{{ post.intro }}** to our basic **blog.html*** page ensures an intro is included with our list of blog titles.

*Our blog.html page in turn has its own front matter with:–

`---`   
`layout: default`   
`title: Blog`   
`---`

Setting up the build. 

---

Everything you need to get you up and running with Jekyll, YAML and Liquid can be found on [jekyllrb](http://jekyllrb.com). 

**Sites powered by Jekyll** 
   
- [IxD Belfast](ixdbelfast.org)  
- [Dan Cederholm](http://simplebits.com/about/) – if this isn’t a solid endorsement for using Jekyll I don’t know what is. 
- [Rasmus Andersson](http://rsms.me)
- [GitHub Official Teaching Materials ](https://training.github.com)

---

Week 03 – Creating and Managing Copy  
