AAD321/DES310 - Narrative and Storytelling
==========================================

I'll be posting supporting material for AAD321 here. If you're unfamiliar with GitHub, I'd suggest you educate yourself. You should all be learning about version control and, by using GitHub for our supporting lecture content, we hope to ensure you're aware of it.

Please watch this page. This will ensure you're kept up to date when the file changes (you'll be notified in your GitHub newsfeed when any changes are made).

Week 01 - Introduction
----------------------

This week we'll introduce the teaching staff and an overview of the module. We'll introduce the deliverables, what is research and experimentation and look at exemplar examples from previous years.

__Resources:__

+ [Design Journal Template](resources/design_journal.zip)
+ [Extinct Bird Article](resources/bird_article.zip)

###Labs

Please read the Extinct Bird Article and answer the following questions. Post the answers in Week 1 of your Design Journal:

1. In which country was the "extinct" bird found?
2. What was the name given to the bird by the indigenous people?
3. What is the wing span of an adult takahe?
4. List the various causes of extinction as described in the text?
5. In what year was the the first takahe caught by Europeans?
6. Where did Dr. Orbell build his summer home?
7. Where can you find a preserved specimen of takahe?
8. What type of pipe is Dr. Orbell smoking in the image?
9. How much was a specimen of takahe worth in 1945?
10. Name another native species of bird that became extinct?

We'd also like you to write a 50 word pen portrait that introduces yourself and post it at the top of your design journal.


Week 02 - The Narrative Experience
----------------------------------

This week we'll introduce Narrative Architecture. Well explore different types of narrative experiences including Enacted and Emergent narratives, what they are and why do they matter?

###Labs

This week we'll take you through getting your Design Journal setup, should you be having any issues. Please download the design journal (see week one above for link) and get it setup on your Student workspace e.g.

```
https://scm.ulster.ac.uk/~B00123456/workspace/des310/
```

We'd like to to markup the raw bird text file you have been given using Markdown. Save a copy of your Markdown file and link it in Week 2 of your Design Journal.

> Markdown is a text-to-HTML conversion tool for web writers. Markdown allows you to write using an easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text format, then convert it to structurally valid HTML. - John Gruber, Daring Fireball
  
You may want to take some time to read the Markdown basics. To help we've included some resources below.

+ [Markdown resources](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics)
+ [Dillinger Markdown Converter](http://dillinger.io/)
+ [Atom](https://atom.io/)



Week 03 - Art Direction on Paper and on Screen
----------------------------------------------

This week we begin to explore what art direction is, defining it and showing you how an understanding of art direction and design will lead you to become a better designer.

__Lecture Resources__
+ [Art Direction and the Web](http://alistapart.com/article/artdirweb) _by_ Stephen Hay (2004)
+ [A New Day](http://v4.jasonsantamaria.com/articles/a-new-day/) _by_ Jason Santa Maria
+ [Art Direction on the Web](http://www.zeldman.com/2008/06/19/art-direction-on-the-web/) _by_ Jeffrey Zeldman (2008)
+ [Art Direction and Design](http://alistapart.com/article/art-direction-and-design) _by_ Dan Mall (2010)

###Labs

This week we'll look at creativity, idea generation and paper prototyping. Where does an idea come from? What tools can we use to quickly prototype these ideas? Bring along a pen and paper as we'll be getting you to sketch out some some ideas.

During the lab we'd like you to produce a [Mind Map](http://www.tonybuzan.com/about/mind-mapping/). 

> A Mind Map is a powerful graphic technique which provides a universal key to unlock the potential of the brain. It harnesses the full range of cortical skills – word, image, number, logic, rhythm, colour and spatial awareness – in a single, uniquely powerful manner. - Tony Buzan

__Instructions__
+ You will choose the word to start from - a few examples being Bird, Dr. Orbell, New Zealand – and radiate out from it.
+ We need ten lines to start. The ten lines will force us to find ten related keywords.
+ As you begin to get more proficient at mind mapping you might want to start introducing colour and expanding the visual grammar of your mind maps.
+ Try it again with another word and compare your results.

The mind map will help you to firm up a direction to take your Bird project. Imagine you're a director and you've been given a script. Each director has their own unique style, some will be fast paced and action packed, some may be slow, emotional and thought provoking. We want you to explore various ideas on how you can tell the story as a single page narrative website.


Week 04 – Type is Clothing for Words
------------------------------------

This week we'll look at how a typeface can convey a subliminal narrative over and above the meaning of the words displayed. We'll also introduce web typography and look at what font services exist.


Week 05 – Pacing and the Power of the Pause
-------------------------------------------

This week we'll look at how a story unfolds over time and by leveraging the power of the pause, we are actually adding by leaving out.


Week 06 – Visual Vocabulary - Flat vs Realism
---------------------------------------------

This week we'll think about experience and what things are like. What happens when we turn the page of a magazine? How do we move through states?


Week 07 – The Psychology of Transition
--------------------------------------

This week we'll think about experience and what things are like. What happens when we turn the page of a magazine? How do we move through states?


Week 08 – Break
---------------

This week staff are running Break conference. Students will be encouraged to attend Break and/or related events.


Week 09 – Group Critique
------------------------

This week is a group critique where specific feedback will be given highlighting exemplary work and denoting potential areas of improvement to enable students to revise project work prior to final submission.


Week 10 – Learning from Film/Music
----------------------------------

This week we'll explore what we can learn from other types of media to gain a deeper understanding of storytelling. We'll look at examples from the world of film and music to highlight the narrative experience.


Week 11 – Storytelling (Presentation Skills)
--------------------------------------------

Up until now we've covered narrative and storytelling in the context of media (Web, print, film etc). This final lecture will look at presentation skills and how you can orally and visually convey the story behind your project idea.


Week 12 – Viva
--------------

The viva's will take place this week so there is no lecture.

----

Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Tim Potter](mailto:tej.potter@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=AAD321).
