IXD101 – Interaction Design Fundamentals
========================================

I'll be posting supporting material for IXD101 here. If you're unfamiliar with GitHub, don't worry, we will be introducing you to its magic at the end of Week 02.

GitHub can all appear a little intimidating at first, but – like anything in life – with some experience it will all make sense. Don't worry, we won't leave you in the dark, we're here to help and will ensure you're all set to go. For now you can just keep this page bookmarked and read it like any other web page.


Week 01 – The Adventure Ahead
-----------------------------

In this, our first week, we welcomed you to our exciting adventure ahead. Our presentations were as follows:

+ The Adventure Ahead
+ A Show and Tell: Meet Mr Murphy
+ Good Ideas Grow on Paper

Monday's session stressed the importance of working on paper:

> Paper should be the first point of call to get your idea(s) out of your head and into a form that can be easily visualised, reimagined, discussed and shared.
> —Jake Giltsoff, Typekit

> [Always start on paper.](http://www.leemunroe.com/designing-with-pen-paper/)
> —Lee Munroe, Mailgun

> When we jump straight onto the computer and begin pushing pixels around in Photoshop (or our weapon of choice), we’re jumping several stages ahead in the process, without any of the foundational stages that go before it. As a result, we’ll likely find that problems arrive that would’ve been foreseen if we’d only gone through a bit of research and discovery first — some sketching, some loose ideas. The best designs come at the end of a process, and that process begins with rough experimentation with lo-fi tools.
> —Elliot Jay Stocks, Typekit

Next up we had a full day paper prototyping workshop.

If you are not on [Twitter](http://twitter.com) go get youself an account and start following:

- @johnmaeda
- @feltron 
- @ajwshaughnessy 
- @stop 
- @aisleone 
- @pentagram 
- @fontshop 
- @dribbble 
- @brendandawes
- @creativebloq
- @nispweb

Not forgetting:

- @fehler
- @eleventhirty
- @belfastschart

###Resources

Each week I will add a list of suitable resources some will have been covered during the day but others may be added where appropriate. Depending on what's available these may be links to books, publications, websites or videos.

[If the Moon Were Only 1 Pixel](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html)

[Wikipedia "Living Mark"](https://www.flickr.com/photos/movingbrandsflickr/5828432132/in/set-72157626826395221)

[Wikipedia Rebrand for Viewpoint](https://www.flickr.com/photos/movingbrandsflickr/sets/72157626826395221)

---


Week 02 – Point
---------------


Week 03 – Line
--------------


Week 04 – Plane
---------------


Week 05 – Typography
--------------------


Week 06 – Colour
----------------


Week 07 – Your Home on the Web
------------------------------


Week 08 – Break
---------------


Week 09 – Content is King
-------------------------


Week 10 – CSS101
----------------


Week 11 – A Single Column, Fluid Layout
---------------------------------------


Week 12 – Listomatic
--------------------



----


Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Paul McCormack](mailto:p.mccormack@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=IXD101).
