AAD115 - Interaction Design Fundamentals
========================================

I'll be posting supporting material for AAD115 here. If you're unfamiliar with GitHub, don't worry, Tim and Paul will be introducing you to its magic at the end of Week 02.

GitHub can all appear a little intimidating at first, but – like anything in life – with some experience it will all make sense. Don't worry, we won't leave you in the dark, we're here to help and will ensure you're all set to go. For now you can just keep this page bookmarked and read it like any other web page.


Week 01 - The Adventure Ahead
-----------------------------

In this, our first week, we welcomed you to our exciting adventure ahead. Our presentations were as follows:

+ The Adventure Ahead
+ A Show and Tell: Meet Messrs Potter and Murphy
+ Good Ideas Grow on Paper

We flagged up the [Refresh Belfast with Brendan Dawes](https://getinvited.to/refreshbelfast/refresh-with-brendan-dawes/), 20 October, for which you should all be getting a ticket. We also highlighted [Break](http://breakconf.org), for which we are sponsoring you, i.e. you get into Break 100% free, as our students. Yay!

Monday's session stressed the importance of working on paper:

> Paper should be the first point of call to get your idea(s)  out of your head and into a form that can be easily visualised, reimagined, discussed and shared.
> —Jake Giltsoff, Typekit

> [Always start on paper.](http://www.leemunroe.com/designing-with-pen-paper/)
> —Lee Munroe, Mailgun

> When we jump straight onto the computer and begin pushing pixels around in Photoshop (or our weapon of choice), we’re jumping several stages ahead in the process, without any of the foundational stages that go before it. As a result, we’ll likely find that problems arrive that would’ve been foreseen if we’d only gone through a bit of research and discovery first — some sketching, some loose ideas. The best designs come at the end of a process, and that process begins with rough experimentation with lo-fi tools.
> —Elliot Jay Stocks, Typekit

Next up we had a full day paper prototyping workshop.



Week 02 - Point
---------------

We're starting with the smallest possible building block - the point - we'll use this across a range of exercises on paper that investigate and explore form and composition.


Week 03 - Line
--------------

The line…


Week 04 - Plane
---------------

Something about planes… This week we'll explore tone, etc., we'll look at compositional approaches: the golden section, the law of thirds, etc., etc.


Week 05 - Typography
--------------------

The word. The sentence. The paragraph.


Week 06 - Colour
----------------

We introduce colour.


Week 07 - You're Home on the Web
--------------------------------

Stephen, Big Wet Fish.


Week 08 - Break
---------------

I'd encourage all students to attend [Break](http://breakconf.org). Students on this 


Week 09 - Content is King
-------------------------

Markup that adds meaning… Another paper exercise, like Adam Procter's as a refresher. HTML5's new semantic elements.


Week 10 - CSS101
----------------

Chapter 8 (Monday), Chapter 9 (Tuesday).


Week 11 - A Single Column, Fluid Layout
---------------------------------------

%, ems, rems, etc..


Week 12 - Listomatic
--------------------

Content here.


----


Questions? Contact the module coordinator: [Christopher Murphy](mailto:chris.murphyk@ulster.ac.uk?Subject=AAD115).
